To add models to QGIS:

1. Open Processing Toolbox
2. Press Top left icon (three gears)
3. Click 'Add Model to Toolbox'
4. Select a .model3 file
5. repeat for the other .model3 files


How They Work:

The RORB Builder developed by Tom Norman is a QGIS plugin which takes shapefile layers of a fixed format and converting it to a .catg format, which is readable by RORB.
In order for pyromb RORB builder to work, the reaches layer must fit a certain format, with data infilled.
The data infilling process can be time consuming and is prone to errors.





--------------Names and Slopes of Reaches----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Measuring slopes of reaches is usually done according to a DEM (digital elevation model), which is usually a raster layer in GIS.
The slope is calculated by taking rise/run from the start and end points, which is according to RORB guidelines.
The Names are generated by taking the start and end node names respectively, separated by a '-'.
e.g: 'A1-B2' is the reach joining upstream node A1 to downstream node B2

There are four input layers:
1. DEM Raster
2. Reaches
3. Centroids
4. Confluences

DEM RASTER:
Must cover the entire extend of all nodes and reaches

Reaches:
Must be in the format:
|t                |s                            |id              |length                |
|(reach type)     |(slope)                      |(reach name)    |(reach distance, m)   |
|(integer 1-5)    |(decimal, in percent 0-100)  |(string, 7char) |(decimal, in m)       |

Centroids:
Must be in the format:
|id                |fi                      |
|(node name)       |(fraction impervious)   |
|(string, 3char)   |(decimal, between 0-1)  |

Confluences:
Must be in the format:
|id                |out                                       |
|(node name)       |(end node of model, only one permitted)   |
|(string, 3char)   |(integer, 1 for end node, 0 for not)      |

All reaches must be snapped to nodes and pointing downstream.
All reaches fields can be blank and will be autofilled (except for t) and output as a temporary scratch layer.
Centroids and Confluences id fields must be filled and globally unique for each node.






--------------Iterate Confluence Names-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

RORB guidelines indicate that confluence (junction) nodes are named according to an upstream centroid (source) node,
with a number following it.
The number should indicate how many degrees of separation are between the confluence and upstream centroid.

There are three input layers:
1. Confluences
2. Centroids
3. Reaches

Confluences:
Must be in the format:
|id                |out                                       |
|(node name)       |(end node of model, only one permitted)   |
|(string, 3char)   |(integer, 1 for end node, 0 for not)      |

Centroids:
Must be in the format:
|id                |fi                      |
|(node name)       |(fraction impervious)   |
|(string, 3char)   |(decimal, between 0-1)  |

Reaches:
Must be in the format:
|t                |s                            |id              |length                |
|(reach type)     |(slope)                      |(reach name)    |(reach distance, m)   |
|(integer 1-5)    |(decimal, in percent 0-100)  |(string, 7char) |(decimal, in m)       |

According to RORB, centroid id field must be filled with only letter names. A to Z, then AA to AZ, BA to BZ, CA to CZ, etc.
Reaches can all be blank, but must be snapped to the nodes, and pointing downstream.
Centroids must be the most upstream point of each pathway, with as many confluences leading down to the outlet.

After running the model once, confluences numbered up to 2 will be named.
This output can be fed back into the model using the same centroids and reaches layer to generate confluence names up to number 3.
This can be repeated until all confluences are named.

In the case that two possible names are allowed (e.g nodes A1 and B1 and both directly upstream of a confluence),
one of the names will be selected at random, therefore no duplicates will be formed.
Therefore either names A2 or B2 will be selected at random, rather than a separate feature created for each.

According to RORB, both names are valid, however one may make more sense for a given project.
Therefore some review may be needed for the best result.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
